# Update Carpentries Lesson to the latest version of styles

This action will fetch the changes upstream of your lesson and merges them into
the gh-pages or PR branch of your repository. This can be combined with 
integration tests or other actions that create pull requests on your behalf. 

## Inputs

### `commit`

This is a boolean field that indicates if a commit should be created after merge.
If `true`, a commit will be created, if `false`, the merge will remain uncommited
and a downstream action will need to perform that task.

### Environment Variables

Because I don't want to wrap my head around getopt for BASH, I'm using 
environment variables to pass in user parameters. These parameters are 
`PR`, which is the pull request number, if any, and `LESSON`, which is the 
human-readable name of the lesson. The `REF` environment variable can be set to
`${{ github.ref }}`, but if it's unset, it will default to `gh-pages`

## Outputs

### `update`

If there were changes, this value will be `true`, otherwise, it will be empty


## Example

This example is truncated from the update-styles action proposed in the lesson
example repository. Note that because this action creates a pull request, it 
should only ever use `workflow_dispatch` and `schedule`. Here, you can see us
setting the `LESSON` environment variable and the `REF` environment variable.

```yaml
name: Weekly Styles Update
on:
  workflow_dispatch: ...
  schedule: ...

jobs:
  update-styles:
    runs-on: ubuntu-20.04
    name: Styles Update
    steps:
      - uses: actions/checkout@v2

      - name: Sync lesson with carpentries/styles
        id: update
        uses: carpentries/actions/update-styles@main
        env:
          REF: ${{ github.ref }}
          LESSON: "Lesson Example"
        with:
          commit: true

      - name: Create Pull Request
        id: cpr
        if: ${{ steps.update.outputs.update == 'true' }}
        uses: peter-evans/create-pull-request@v3.10.0
        with:
          token: ${{ secrets.STYLES_WORKFLOW }}
          commit-message: "[actions] Sync lesson with carpentries/styles"
          branch: "update-styles"
          delete-branch: true
          title: "Update Styles ..."
          body: |
            Update styles repository
            - Auto-generated by [create-pull-request][1]

            [1]: https://github.com/peter-evans/create-pull-request
          labels: "type:template and tools"
          team-reviewers: core-team-curriculum
          draft: false
```

## Justification

This action attempts to remove the pain of updating the styles repository for
Carpentries lessons developed before {sandpaper}.

These lessons were created directly on the back of the [styles template], which
invloved importing the repository from The Carpentries github account to a new
repository (not the same as templating or forking).

Because all of the styles and tools lived inside of the repository, the lesson
would rapidly fall out of date from the styles repository. The process for 
updating it always required the maintainer to pull changes from the styles
repository and merge them.

This action consists of a BASH script developed by Maxim Belkin that was
originally meant to perform [integration tests on the styles repository][orig].

[styles template]: https://carpentries.github.io/lesson-template
[orig]: https://github.com/carpentries/styles/commit/d3f553d205fd7dfb71998f2ac6f4072e072ebeda#diff-8c756d76291b39cc76303be35bb3a526eae9d0b37c60fa60b1f444db109f7bab
